# Problem 2 - Production from a Geothermal Reservoir with Hypersaline Brine and CO2 (rhbc)

This problem examines production from a hypothetical geothermal reservoir with high salinity and CO2. A single well produces at a constant rate of 65 kg/s from an infinite-acting reservoir in 1-D radial flow geometry. The reservoir is in two-phase conditions initially, with uniform initial conditions of P = 60 bar, T = 275.55 ˚C; other problem parameters are given in Table 2, and Figure 6 shows the TOUGH3 input file. The choices made with SELEC-data are: no vapor pressure lowering (IE(10) = 0), a tubes-in-series model for permeability reduction from precipitation (IE(11) = 3), full dependence of thermophysical properties on salinity (IE(14) = 0), Michaelides correlation for brine enthalpy (IE(15) = 1), and CO2 as non-condensible gas (IE(16) = 2). The permeability-porosity relationship for the parameters used here (IE(11) = 3, FE(1) = FE(2) = 0.8) is shown in Figure 6.

Fluid withdrawal causes pressures to drop near the production well. Boiling of reservoir fluid gives rise to dilution of CO2 in the gas phase and to increased concentrations of dissolved NaCl, which begins to precipitate when the aqueous solubility limit is reached. As the boiling front recedes from the well, solid precipitate fills approximately 10 % of the original void space (see Figure 7), causing permeability to decline to approximately 28 % of its original value. Specifications of this problem (1-D radial geometry, uniform initial conditions, constant well rate) were chosen so that a similarity solution would be applicable, which should depend on radius R and time t only through the similarity variable x = R2/t (O'Sullivan, 1981). This similarity property should hold even when all complexities of two-phase flow with nonlinear relative permeabilities, CO2 exsolution effects, salt precipitation, and associated porosity and permeability effects are taken into account. The agreement between results for two different times (5x105 and 2x106 seconds) when plotted as a function of the similarity variable shows that the similarity property holds very accurately for all thermodynamic variables (Figure 7). As a benchmark for proper code installation, we also provide printout for the first few time steps of the TOUGH3 run, Figure 8.

